---
layout: post
title:  "Restless"
date:   2015-03-02 22:00:00
categories: 8th-light mentalhealth
---
Today was my first day at 8th Light London as a Resident Apprentice. 

Today is Monday. I arrived Saturday night (around 2am) to a hostel I booked that is 20 minutes walking from the office. 
That night was awfull. I was sharing the room with other 11 people who wanted a place to fall asleep after partying nearby. That means: drunk people making noise until 4/5am.
Next Sunday I had to wake up somewhat early to get a phone number and be able to communicate with anyone sharing flats. I spent most of the day looking and contacting adverts. I got time to view a couple of rooms. I was needed to stay active communicating until late in the evening.
Although I was expected to be at 9am at the office, I had to wake up a bit earlier to be able to go to a Bank and try to get one account.

Those things got me really mentally tired. 

I was being `restless`.

I allways considered myself a restless person in the meaning of `non-stop learning, doing and improving everything I've been interested in`. I didn't want the other meanings of the word: `worried`, `nervous`. It's funny how the word `restless` is composed by the words `rest` and `less`, like saying: `You are resting too much, You don't need to rest`.

Lets continue with my experience of the first day at 8th Light. 
I received a nice, warm welcome from a lot of people at 8th Light. They very kindly offered help with anything I need in this transition. I really appreciate that! Thank you!

After some necessary paperwork, I got assigned some tasks in which there is the writing of this blog. I'm using [Jekyll][jekyll] for it.
I struggled to concentrate and understand the basics of it because I was mentally tired. I was spending too much time for something as basic as creating a blog. Around 2 to 4 times longer than I think I would have spent if I were properly rested. To minimize the amount of wasted time because of my tiredness I decided to copy, paste and edit the built-in starting template instead of properly learning the tool. I thought: `I just need to create a basic blog to start posting. I will improve it if and when needed`

The same situation happened with the following tasks... I wasn't able to concentrate. I made bad decisions that I realised afterwards and had to go back to fix them.

When I sleep well, and all I need, I can feel much more mentally agile.

[jekyll]:      http://jekyllrb.com
