---
layout: post
title:  "Simple"
date:   2015-06-01 21:00:00
categories: 8thlight
---
Last Friday, [Makis][maikon] offered to pair on whatever I was working on. I just started working a bit with [Rack][rack].
I did a bit of the pieces I thought I needed and I was proud of the path I was taking. It was clever, too clever. To the point of re-implementing some of the functionality provided by [Rack][rack].

[maikon]: http://maikon.github.io/
[rack]: http://rack.github.io/

For example the router. Only because I didn't like the API; it seemed complex and rigid to me:

{% highlight ruby %}
app = Rack::Builder.new do
  map "/route" do
    run lambda do |env|
      [200, {'Content-Type' => 'text/plain'}, ['OK']]
    end
  end
end

run app
{% endhighlight %}

You can see that the way of doing routing is by using `Rack::Builder`. You have to specify the full path with `map`, you cannot match the requests by other characteristics. And you cannot filter by `GET`, `POST`, etc. there. So I did my own implementation of a router:

{% highlight ruby %}
class Router
  UNDEFINED_DEFAULT_HANDLER = lambda do |env|
    raise 'No default handler has been defined!'
  end

  def initialize(routes, default_handler = UNDEFINED_DEFAULT_HANDLER)
    self.routes = routes
    self.default_handler = default_handler
  end

  def call(environment)
    routes.each do |selector, handler|
      return handler.call(environment) if selector.call(environment)
    end
    default_handler.call(environment)
  end

  private
  attr_accessor :routes, :default_handler
end
{% endhighlight %}

The same client code would be like:

{% highlight ruby %}
def path_starts_with?(partial_path)
  lambda { |env| env["REQUEST_PATH"].start_with?(partial_path)}
end

app = Router.new({
  path_starts_with?("/route") => lambda do |env|
    [200, {'Content-Type' => 'text/plain'}, ['OK']]
  end
})

run app
{% endhighlight %}

Very similar to the `Rack::Builder` syntax. But the `Router` I implemented is much more flexible and it does not depend on any class of [Rack][rack].

I thought it was simple: the logic of the router (`call` method) is only 4 lines long!
But it took a bit more than I expected for [Makis][maikon] and [Christoph][christoph] to see what was happening there. I remember what [Christoph][christoph] said:

[christoph]: https://twitter.com/ChristophGockel

`The router receives the routes. But wait... It is a hash and its keys are lambdas!!?`

That was something unexpected. Simple code should be easy to maintain. And to be easy to maintain, [has to be obvious][what-you-expected]. The `Router` is not obvious. It is expected for anyone looking to a [Rack][rack] project to see `Rack::Builder`, not a custom `Router`. And even worse, it is not expected to see `lambdas` as keys in a `Hash`.

[what-you-expected]: http://www.azquotes.com/quote/773497

[Makis][maikon] also like another [quote from Ward Cunningham][quotes]:

`Simplicity is the shortest path to a solution.`

[quotes]: http://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/Ward_Cunningham#The_Simplest_Thing_that_Could_Possibly_Work

Writing those custom classes is not the shortest path.
